WIP: Analysis productions lesson (#228)
lhcb/starterkit-lessons: first-analysis-steps/analysis-productions.md

Each of these rows corresponds to a job belonging to this production, and displays:

* Its unique ID number of that batch of jobs (left, eg. `69615`)
* Its name (centre, eg. `MC_13266069_2018_MagUp`)
* Its status (right)

To view more information about any one of these jobs, you can click on it to expand it. The below image shows one such job, with a couple of particularly useful elements highlighted in magenta.

![An AP job viewed in DIRAC](img/DIRAC_AP_annotated.png)

The top section shows the summary of important information, like the locations of the input and output files. We can view the ntuples created by this job using the location from the 'output pattern' field. Copy the string starting from `/eos/lhcb/grid/...` (ie. without the `root://eoslhcb.cern.ch/` at the start). You can then open these files in root by opening an lxplus terminal, and entering a command like:

```bash

> root -l /eos/lhcb/grid/prod/lhcb/MC/2018/BSNTUPLE_MC.ROOT/00110974/0000/*.root

Author: Changed in 27d6db9

```

You can now view these files by running `TBrowser b` inside of ROOT (or with your another method of your choice).

To view the files that were used to create these ntuples, you can click on the 'View on GitLab' button. This will show you the version of the Analysis Production code that was run for this job. On GitLab, open the folder named `RDs` (the name of this production), and take a look around. You should find a few separate `.py` options files, as well as an `info.yaml` (more on this later).

## Creating your own production

> For practice, we will now go through the steps of creating a production. It should be noted that this process may change slightly, and the most up-to-date information is to be found on the well-documented [Analysis Productions GitLab page](https://gitlab.cern.ch/lhcb-datapkg/AnalysisProductions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For practice, we will now go through the steps of creating a simple production. For details about more advanced usage, see the [Analysis Productions README](https://gitlab.cern.ch/lhcb-datapkg/AnalysisProductions).
```

Start by creating a folder to work in, and into it clone the [Analysis Productions repository](https://gitlab.cern.ch/lhcb-datapkg/AnalysisProductions).

```bash
git clone ssh://git@gitlab.cern.ch:7999/lhcb-datapkg/AnalysisProductions.git
cd AnalysisProductions
```

Before making any edits, you should create a branch for your changes, and switch to it:

```bash
git checkout -b ${USER}/starterkit-practice
```

Now we need to create a folder to store all the things we're going to add for our new production. For this practice production, we'll continue with the `$ D^{0} \to K^{-}K^{+} $` decays used in the previous few lessons, so we should name the folder appropriately:

```bash

> mkdir D02HH_Starterkit

Author: Changed in 44bb6af

```

Here, the unindented lines are the names of jobs (although `defaults` has a special function), and the indented lines are the options we're applying to those jobs. Using this file will create one job called `2016_MagDown_PromptMC_D02KK`, that will read in data from the provided bookkeeping path. All the options applied under `defaults` are automatically applied to all other jobs - very useful for avoiding repetition. The options we're using here are:

* **application**: the version of DaVinci to use. Here we choose v45r5, the latest for Run 2 at the time of writing.
* **wg**: the working group this production is a part of. Since this is a `$ D^{0} \to K^{-}K^{+} $` decay, we'll set this to `Charm`.
* **inform**: optionally, you can enter your email address to receive updates on the status of your jobs.
* **automatically_configure**: setting this to `yes` is what allowed us to remove all of those configuration lines from the options file. This is very useful when creating productions that use multiple years, or both data and MC.

> * **options**: the list of options files to use. Behind the scenes, these will get passed to DaVinci.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **turbo**: Setting this to `yes` indicates `automatically_configure` should configure the application for reading turbo data.
* **options**: the list of options files to use. Behind the scenes, these will get passed to DaVinci.
```
